- [Instructor] Before continuing you need
to install Docker Community Edition at store.docker.com.
Just drill down into Community Edition and install
the appropriate version for your platform.
I've already done this and to verify it
let's go to a command prompt and type docker --version.
I'm running Docker for Mac, version 18.06 Community Edition.
So, now that we've got Docker installed, it's magic time.
In one command line we will download the MySQL image
from hub.docker.com repository.
That's similar to the Maven Central Repository.
Since it's such a long command line, I have it
in a readme file.
There is now a new readme markdown file
in the exercise files.
I have installed the Markdown plugin to view these.
If you have it just as a text file,
you can copy and paste directly from that as well.
I'm going to copy this line here
and paste it in my terminal.
Now, what this one command will do,
it will create and run a container in the background.
Name the container ec-mysql.
Set the root password to password.
Create a database called explorecali.
Set the username and password to the database
as cali_user and cali_ pass, respectively.
Publish the MySQL 3306 port to the localhost 6604 port.
It'll take some time to run because it does not
have the MySQL image downloaded locally,
so it's downloading from hub.docker.com.
And now we have the MySQL image running
in its own Linux operating system.
Let's see the image.
I'm going to enter docker images.
And there's the MySQL image in the running containers.
Docker ps -a, A meeting all.
And we have one MySQL image
with the name ec-mysql.
Now that our database is started it's time
to modify the Explore California application
to use MySQL database.
So, in the pom.xml,
we have the dependency for the MySQL connector
and in application.properties we have
the properties to connect to the database.
We have the data source URL, the username
and the password which all matches what we put in before.
Since we are using a non-SQL data source we need to set
the data source initialization mode to always.
Finally we have spring.datasource.continue-on-error
set to true.
So, if we run the application multiple times,
schema.sql will run multiple times and if there's already
a database existing it will not stop the application
it will just continue to run.
So, let's build the project.
And before we start the application
let's check out the state of our running database.
To do this, we call a Docker run command with --link option
and it's also in the readme.
This will link into
the MySQL container.
The ec-mysql container and execute the MySQL client.
I'm copying that over.
Clear the screen.
Launching this.
And it will connect with the correct username
and password and port.
So, let's show our databases.
And we see the explorecali database is present.
Let's use it.
Let's show the tables that are available.
We see that there are no tables yet
and now we're going to launch our application
which will create the tables and insert the proper values.
Now that that's started, let's run that command again
to show tables.
There are our security_role, user, tour, tour_package,
tour_rating and user tables.
Now, let's look at the tours.
There's all our tours, and we see that
we got 30 rows back.
Now, let's stop running the application.
Run that command again.
There's our tours, they're still there,
this is completely brand new.
The tours are persistent after the application terminated.
I'm going to restart the application.
I'm gonna see the tours.
Now we see we have 60 rows of tours.
So, the problem is that this script ran again
so there are duplicate tours in the database
with different ID's.
So using schema.sql and data.sql are good
for database initialization, but not migration.
Before we leave, let's stop and remove
the Docker container so we have a clean environment.
We'll quit from MySQL, we're going to say,
docker stop ec-mysql, that will stop the container.
Now we want to remove it.
Let's make sure it's gone.
So it's gone.
And we see the container is removed
but the MySQL image is still available
to create new containers as needed.